Go ahead. Is it ready to go? Well, after we bought
this car, people come in the yard to see it. Some of
them say it wouldn't last. Some of them thought it
was all right. But I think we drove it about 10
years.
Is it going? It's going fine. Go ahead. And, of
course, then they made things to last. They didn't
make it to wear out and go buy a new one the next day.
And there has been so many things now, though, that
we didn't have then. I can look back in my kitchen.
When I first kept house, everything was hard. I had
a wood stove. We didn't buy stuff already prepared
to eat. We had to fix it. And now, I think about the
young generation. All convenience in the world,
they've got it. And I don't know, they don't keep
house like I did when I was raising my first
children. And washed, I always had help. I always
had a colored woman to help me. And she washed on the
washboard. and iron with a flat iron, get that iron
hot. She'd build up a fire out in the yard with wood,
and she'd put the iron in front of that and get it
hot, and that's the way she ironed. And now they
have electric iron, and everything's
perma-pressed. Then everything was starched,
stiff as a poker. Things have come a long, long way,
I can tell you. At last, they have really made it
easy on the housewife. Do you think it's good or
bad? Well, I'll tell you what. In a way, it's good.
And in a way, it is not. It has made the young
housewife lazy. Maybe because she doesn't have to
do as much work. She don't have no hard work to do.
And they have washing machines. And most every,
now I don't like a dryer. Why is that? Is it stop? Can
I start? Yeah, go ahead. I'll tell you my objection
to a dryer. They burn the clothes, then the clothes
is not pretty and white. But I'll say this, it may be
because I'm old fashioned. You can't teach hardly
an old dog new tricks. And for 83 years, in fact, the
seventh day of May, I'll be keeping house 61 years.
That's quite a long time. And that's a long time to
have to change. Now, I will admit, I've got all
convenience. Yes, I've got it. And I appreciate it
and I enjoy it. But don't think that I don't think so
many times of things that I have done or we have
done, rather. Not I myself, but everybody else did
the same thing. Like what? Well, look, now,
everything, I even have an electric coffee pot.
You've got electric toaster. You've got
electric, just everything in the world in your
kitchen now is electric. I used to make my coffee in
a pot, a coffee pot, put it on the stove, and boil
those grounds, push it off and let it set a while,
and then pour that coffee in another pot. That was
coffee. Well, now I either use electric
percolator or drippolator. What kind of cooking
facilities, you know, say stove or oven or
whatever did you have? I had a wood stove. For
cooking, too? Yes, sir, a wood stove. And don't you
forget it, that that's the best cooking in the
world on a wood stove. Now everything's cooked
quick, quick. Get it out of the deep freeze and pop
it in the stove and cook it quick. Did you, back in
your family, when you grew up as a child, how did you
heat your house? Well, we had fireplaces. Was it
pretty cold up in Tennessee? Oh, in Tennessee,
people almost, they still have fireplaces there
because they're on account of the weather. Is that
cold up there? Oh, me, yes, it's cold there. And
they had wood stoves, of course. People now, they
have modern homes, I understand now, but the
majority of people have fireplaces. Yeah,
fireplaces are a thing to have anywhere now. Yeah,
fireplaces now, just like even in Texas now,
people building new homes, they have fireplaces.
Yeah, yeah. Because, and of course, in my day, wood
was cheap. When I moved to Hearn, we, that old house
that I sold last year, well, there was fireplaces
there. And then wood got higher and got to where
you'd have to hire it and cut and everything while
we had it closed up and got gas heaters. I didn't
know there was a fireplace over there. Oh, yeah. It
was closed up. There was two of them. There was one
in that north bedroom and one in the living room.
Oh, no. Even my baby girl, we had it closed up. She
don't remember us having fireplace, and she's
getting on up there herself. Well, times has
changed so much. Another thing with teenagers,
they congregate at one's house. And they'd play
cards. They'd play dominoes. And they would have a
record player. And they'd dance. Was it crank
record player? Yeah. It was called a phonograph.
You had a great big horn. And you'd turn that thing.
And you'd put a record on there. There's records.
And the children, they didn't think about getting
in a car and riding out yonder, and there wasn't
always a car wreck and things then. Well, my first
children, I had two sets of children, same mother
and daddy. The first four were great big children
when I had these four little girls, and they still
say they're four little girls. And they didn't
study about going, for they had horse and birdie.
They met at one another's house. And now they don't
go to one another's house. They get in a car and go
off somewhere and have a car wreck and somebody get
killed. I think that's one thing, the way that
makes time so hard is the way people let their
children do now. I think they've brought a whole
lot of it on themselves. by not being economical.
Now, you take this crisis that we're going through
with gas. There's plenty of gas and plenty of oil.
It's somewhere else. But we have brought it on
ourselves, a whole lot of it. I'll tell you, the
majority of people have took living for granted
that I'm supposed to have this. I don't think
that's right, what you're supposed to have. God
don't owe you nothing. Amen to that. I agree with
you. But a lot of people think so. God owes them a
living. This is me. Why can't I have that? You can
have it if you work for it, if you're well and can. Of
course, there's some people that can't. And I'll
tell you another thing that's changed. People
used to help each other. If a neighbor got sick, I'd
go over and I'd get their clothes, and we'd wash and
iron them, take them to them. And we used to make
homemade bread. Make a great big pan of homemade
bread, bake a hen in dressing, and take it to the
family. People now don't do that. They don't love
one another like they used to. They don't care.
I'll tell you the way the world is now. Just so me and
mine is the swimming, you can sink.
Oh, there's been lots of changes. What kind of a
roads facility did you have around here when y'all
first came here? Oh, we had dirt roads. All of them
were dirt? No paved highways? No. I forgot what
year it was, but I was living on Market Street when
they built this highway. Oh, that's what I was
going to ask. Highway 6 didn't exist when you first
came here then. Huh? You mean Highway 6 didn't
exist when you first came here? Oh, it was a road,
yes. It was like gravel, you know. It wasn't paved?
It wasn't a mud road. It was gravel like from Dallas
on into Houston. It wasn't paved? No, no, no, no,
no. And then they paved. And it was narrow. Of
course, I reckon they thought cars wasn't going to
get plentiful like they are now. And they made it so
narrow. And I think that's one reason we had so many
car wrecks years ago. When did they pave it? Oh, I
don't remember what year it was when they paved it.
It
was in the early 40s
when they paved it. And then, of course, I won't
live to see it, but probably you will, and my
grandchildren maybe, that there will be four-way
highways everywhere. And whenever they do, you
watch and see, there won't be so many wrecks. I wish
they had them now. And do you know, Texas, of
course, has wonderful highways, but Tennessee
has the best highways? Really? What kind of road
did they have when you were growing up there? We had
pikes. They called them pikes. And they were made
out of pine gravel. Well, was a pike like what we
call a highway? Yeah, uh-huh. And when it rained,
all that stuff just packed together. You see, it
didn't get muddy. And that's the kind of sidewalks
people had. Where I was born and reared, I was born
and married out of the house that I was born in. My
daddy had all around the house, and he had three or
four barns, and that kind of walkways to the barns.
It was nothing in the world but more of a fine
dust-like.
And you wet that, and you cemented together. It
didn't get muddy. What kind of road were you in,
Brian? Same kind over here? just like this, went
through, narrow. But the road, the old Bryan
Highway, you know where the old Bryan Highway is?
I've heard about it, but I don't know exactly where
it is. Well, it goes, it went kind of around Bryan.
You mean it didn't go through it? Mm-mm. Went kind
of, wasn't much to go through of Bryan. I've heard
that, too. Went kind of around it. Well, I'll tell
you where it goes. You know, like if you are going
in to Bryan, let me see, where is that turn? It kind
of makes a turn, and there's a road going this way.
Well, that's the old Bryan Highway. Oh, I see. Do
you remember when they, you know, did this other,
put this other thing in? Oh, yeah. When was that?
Oh, I don't remember what, yeah. And I remember
when they built the overpass. You know the
overpass going on to Brown? I remember when they
built that. Daddy helped to build that. You see
it's got the railroad goes over that. And he helped
to build that, that track across that. Oh, really?
Mm-hmm. And the old Brown Highway, when you got to
that, where the old place is why you can see some of
it now the old brown highway went all the way around
i know what you're talking about yeah i know what
you're talking about that's the way it went i know i
know exactly what you're talking about right now i
don't think there's anything to it except sort of
uh remains of it you know it's pretty badly torn up
well now i think all it's used through that old
highway is where people that live back out in there
it's a way to get in and out to their houses because i
know there is some trailer houses that set back off
of there in fact people that i know that bought land
and put trailer houses out there and that's all
that it is it's not kept up it's just kept up by
individuals you know the county don't have to keep
it up now
anything else uh So what time is it? It's 25 to 6. Is
there anything else you want to say? This is plenty
for me. I can tell you another improvement that I
have seen more than anything is in the schools.
Of course, I guess one thing, people didn't have
the money. to do with, just take like here. People
will say, we don't have a top-notch school because
we don't have the resources. You see, after they
moved the oil tanks out of here, done away with so
much railroading, I've seen the time you'd go to
P&M Bank, and you'd have to stand there for, they'd
be lined up, clear back down to the drugstore.
Really? And we had better schools then than we do
now. They wouldn't want me to say that, but that's
the truth. Because we had more money. We have to
take secondary of everything. We have to take
teachers that can't get a job nowhere else.
There's no school nowhere, hardly, that will work
a teacher now unless they've got two degrees.
That's true, yeah. Well, we learned about that in
some of the education courses Well,
you just take it this way. When the boys, of course,
you know yourself, when you finish high school,
you've got to take a test to get in college. And they
claim that Hearn has less percentage of boys and
girls in college because they can't make the grade
to get in there. That wouldn't surprise me at all.
surprised me and and i see a big difference in in the
school and in the method of teaching what was the
method of teaching say when you went to college
well now i'll tell you it hasn't changed too much in
the method of teaching in their way of teaching uh
one day i told john we was talking about classes and
uh I was telling John about an English teacher that
I had in college. Oh, me, his name was White. And he
was hard, hard, hard. And I said, of course, your
desk don't sit that way. But I said, our desk began
this way. And he said, that's the way ours does. And
I was shocked. I said, oh, you're kidding. He said,
no, I'm not. I said, well, maybe I'm not too far
behind yet. That's the way they'll do it. You
couldn't copy. the way the desk set. And when John
told me, he said, well, that's the way ours set.
Ours is that way now, too. Staggered? Yeah. And I
said that that's the way ours was. And there's one
thing in college now they do. You see, they grade
now by points. We graded. You got 85 or you got 90.
You got nothing. There was no points. It wasn't.
graded down into points. What was the high school
like? Huh? What was the high school like? Well, in
our school, there was one big room, and everybody
sit in that room. But in the lower grades, while
they had little annex rooms, like the first grade
and on up, Let's see, on up to the sixth, I think,
because the seventh and eighth and ninth and on
through that way. We'd go down all that room. I
think that old schoolhouse is still standing
there. I know the last time I was in Tennessee, I
always go to that old schoolhouse. And, oh, it's
huge because this was a heavy... community I mean
it was a lot of people there and I guess there's
maybe 250 students in all there's a whole lot in
that day and down at the front is where we went down
for classes and everybody else sit back here you
could sit up there and listen if you wanted to of
course everybody we used to that we knew nothing
but that we studied and I This school that I went to,
I graduated from 12th grade. And I was 18. No, I
wasn't 18 when I graduated. And I started college
in 1910.
I started, I went to Teachers College. And that
college today is a, oh, we, It was a big college
then. I think there's about maybe 1,500 or more.
And now they have added to it, and it's, well, I
think they've got about between four and 4,500,
over 4,000.
They started out with it being teacher's college,
and it wasn't but a year or two until anything you
want to take up. Now, when I started, I majored the
first, year i majored in english i was going to make
a teacher and then i changed no i no yes i did i
changed majors then to home ec
and all they were strict oh you think it was more
strict than they are now oh yeah i think so because
you see that comes again with the modern times with
so many things to do with we went to We went to
school. There wasn't cars for us to get in. All cars
was coming in, I understand. How did you get
around? Well, the school was in town, and there was
buses running to take the children that lived in
town or something, maybe that boarded or
something. I stayed at the dormitory. And the
dormitory was just horrible. It was about as far as
from here to DeJulius.
The college was in the center, and the girls was on
one side and the boys on the other. Sunday evening,
I sat there in the car. I didn't go upstairs. I
didn't feel like it. And there is the boys'
dormitory right across there. There's the
girls'. Well, when I grew up, they wouldn't have
nothing like that.
Because of the morality viewpoint then? Then
there comes the morality viewpoint of it again.
People would have thought that would have just
been terrible. And another thing, we had at 10
o'clock, everybody had to be in. Lights had to go
out. Lights had to be out at 10 o'clock. And more
people went to church then. There's more of people
now. The population is greater. But I don't think
people go to church like they used to. I bet you,
you're just young, but I bet you, you see a
difference. Yeah, I do. And then when I went to
college, once a week, we had assembly. We went in,
and the dean of this college He made a talk, and they
had prayer. We'd sing school songs, and sometimes
they'd sing religious songs, and then they'd have
prayer. And, of course, now I think that's one of
the ugliest things that's ever happened in a
schoolroom when they stopped having prayer.
Because that you're one thing and I'm another,
That prayer shouldn't affect that. And I think
that we certainly owe that much to our Lord that's
been so good to us. Yeah, I agree.
Okay, do you have anything else you'd like to add?
Because it's getting pretty late and we need to
conclude this. What was the last thing I said? I
think the last thing we were talking about... That
we ought to give the Lord... Right, right. I had
forgotten myself for a second. Well... When any of
this class lives to be 83 years old, I feel like that
they'll be able, and I hope that they'll be able,
especially by going to A&M, that they can give a
comment on the past life that they have lived. And
it will be worthwhile to some students. Really a
great idea. Okay. Do you have anything else you'd
like to add? Okay, if that's pretty well. I
certainly appreciate you doing this for me. And
thank you for taking the time out of your day to sit
down and talk with me. I really appreciate this.
Thank you very much. Well, I wish I could have done
more, but maybe that'll help you some. I think it's
just going to be fantastic. Thank you very much.